README.md, before:

# BUT FIT Coursework Repository

This repository serves as a collection of projects from various courses at BUT FIT, organized as submodules. Each module contains projects or homeworks completed during the given course.

> **Disclaimer:**  
> This repository is intended for personal purposes, such as porfolio showcase or reference. Some commit messages or code comments may contain language or expressions that could be considered inappropriate or offensive. These do not reflect the views of the author or the institution and are remnants of the development process.

## Summary of the courses
### 4. Semester
 - **ICP** – The C++ Programming Language ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/ICP))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281029/.en?type=Bc))
    - *`FSM Editor`*: Editor and interpreter for Moore's finite state machines. Implemented using `Qt` and `QML` (*QtCreator*).

- **IDS** – Database Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IDS))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280905/.en?type=Bc))
    - *`SQL Database`*: Designed and implemented a relational database for a hotel reservation system.


- **IPK** – Computer Communications and Networks ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IPK))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280936/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`L4 Scanner`*: Checks if a specified port+protocol of a domain/IP-address is OPEN/CLOSED/FILTERED.
    - *(2)* *`Chat Client`*: Implementation of a chat client over TCP and UDP protocols.
    - Both projects were done in `C++`.

- **IPP** – Principles of Programming Languages ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IPP))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280937/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`SOL25 Parser`*: A parser written in `Python` of a programming language inspired by small talk.
    - *(2)* *`SOL25 Interpret`*: An interpret written in `PHP`.

- **IZU** – Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IZU))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281005/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)*  Finding a shortest path using `A* method`.
    - *(2)* In `prolog`, iterating through an array, for a reason specified by assignment.
    - *(3)* Doing iteration of one path using `TD-Learning method`.
    - *(4)* Demonstrating a princip of `ID3` algorithm

### 3. Semester
- **IAL** – Algorithms ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IAL))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280900/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* Implementation of data structures in `C`: *Linked-List*, *Queue* and *Doubly-Linked-List*.
    - *(2)* Implementations of a *Binary-tree* (iterative & recursive) and a *Hashtable* in `C`.
    - A *Hashtable with open adressing* was used in *IFJ project*

- **IFJ** - Formal Languages and Compilers ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IFJ))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280931/.en?type=Bc))
    - *`IFJ24 Parser`*: Implementation of *lexer*, *syntactic analysis*, *semantic analysis*, *code generation*, all done in `C`.

- **INP** – Design of Computer Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/INP))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281147/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *Simple 8-bit CPU*: BrainFuck interpreter implemented in `VHDL`.
    - *(2)* *Vigenere cipher* in `MIPS64 assembly` code.
    
### 2. Semester
- **INC** – Digital Systems Design ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/INC)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281145/.en?type=Bc))
    - Implementing a *finite state machine* based of an assignment done in `VHDL`.

- **IOS** – Operating Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IOS)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280995/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`Bash script`*: proccesing user account logs and allowing filtered queries/reports.
    - *(2)* *Skiers and busses*: A `multi-proccess` program using `shared memory` and `semaphores` done in `C`.

- **IZLO** – Introduction to Logic for Computer Science ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IZLO)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281004/.en?type=Bc))
    - Practical usage of *SMT solvers* done in `C`.

### 1. Semester
- **IZP** – Introduction to Programming Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IZP)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280953/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`keyfilter.c`*: Filters words in stdin based of a prefix from argv done in `C`.
    - *(2)* *`maze.c`*: Finds a path through a maze, can find shortest if specified. Done in `C`.

Commit message:

feat: added commit-history disclaimer

README.md, after:

# BUT FIT Coursework Repository

This repository serves as a collection of projects from various courses at BUT FIT, organized as submodules. Each module contains projects or homeworks completed during the given course.

## Summary of the courses
### 4. Semester
 - **ICP** – The C++ Programming Language ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/ICP))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281029/.en?type=Bc))
    - *`FSM Editor`*: Editor and interpreter for Moore's finite state machines. Implemented using `Qt` and `QML` (*QtCreator*).

- **IDS** – Database Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IDS))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280905/.en?type=Bc))
    - *`SQL Database`*: Designed and implemented a relational database for a hotel reservation system.


- **IPK** – Computer Communications and Networks ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IPK))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280936/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`L4 Scanner`*: Checks if a specified port+protocol of a domain/IP-address is OPEN/CLOSED/FILTERED.
    - *(2)* *`Chat Client`*: Implementation of a chat client over TCP and UDP protocols.
    - Both projects were done in `C++`.

- **IPP** – Principles of Programming Languages ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IPP))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280937/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`SOL25 Parser`*: A parser written in `Python` of a programming language inspired by small talk.
    - *(2)* *`SOL25 Interpret`*: An interpret written in `PHP`.

- **IZU** – Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IZU))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281005/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)*  Finding a shortest path using `A* method`.
    - *(2)* In `prolog`, iterating through an array, for a reason specified by assignment.
    - *(3)* Doing iteration of one path using `TD-Learning method`.
    - *(4)* Demonstrating a princip of `ID3` algorithm

### 3. Semester
- **IAL** – Algorithms ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IAL))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280900/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* Implementation of data structures in `C`: *Linked-List*, *Queue* and *Doubly-Linked-List*.
    - *(2)* Implementations of a *Binary-tree* (iterative & recursive) and a *Hashtable* in `C`.
    - A *Hashtable with open adressing* was used in *IFJ project*

- **IFJ** - Formal Languages and Compilers ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IFJ))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280931/.en?type=Bc))
    - *`IFJ24 Parser`*: Implementation of *lexer*, *syntactic analysis*, *semantic analysis*, *code generation*, all done in `C`.

- **INP** – Design of Computer Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/INP))  ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281147/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *Simple 8-bit CPU*: BrainFuck interpreter implemented in `VHDL`.
    - *(2)* *Vigenere cipher* in `MIPS64 assembly` code.
    
### 2. Semester
- **INC** – Digital Systems Design ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/INC)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281145/.en?type=Bc))
    - Implementing a *finite state machine* based of an assignment done in `VHDL`.

- **IOS** – Operating Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IOS)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280995/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`Bash script`*: proccesing user account logs and allowing filtered queries/reports.
    - *(2)* *Skiers and busses*: A `multi-proccess` program using `shared memory` and `semaphores` done in `C`.

- **IZLO** – Introduction to Logic for Computer Science ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IZLO)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/281004/.en?type=Bc))
    - Practical usage of *SMT solvers* done in `C`.

### 1. Semester
- **IZP** – Introduction to Programming Systems ([repo](https://github.com/Mindoed/IZP)) ([course](https://www.fit.vut.cz/study/course/280953/.en?type=Bc))
    - *(1)* *`keyfilter.c`*: Filters words in stdin based of a prefix from argv done in `C`.
    - *(2)* *`maze.c`*: Finds a path through a maze, can find shortest if specified. Done in `C`.


> **Disclaimer regarding offensive language:**  
> This repository is intended for personal purposes, such as porfolio showcase or reference. Some commit messages or code comments may contain language or expressions that could be considered inappropriate or offensive. These do not reflect the views of the author or the institution and are remnants of the development process.

>**Disclaimer regarding commit history:**
>Please note that the commit history may appear inconsistent or unclear, especially in projects that were created early on or were not versioned from the start.
